

### Conclusions

The main resources I used were Professor Sanchez's lecture material on his Stat 159 page. His labs files also contained a lot of tutorials and useful information to navigate through the computational tools needed to complete this project. The easy part in this project was explaining what I did step-by-step. Creating the directories and initializing the git repositories (remote and local) were not too difficult to do on the command line. The more challenging part was creating the Makefile. Since I could not check the output specifically (like creating html from rmd files in R), the Makefile had to be perfect in order for me to see if my output files were shown correctly. I spent around 2 hours going through the lecture material for Makefile, and it really helped me create a proper Makefile with wildcards and autmomatic variables. In addition, I had a really hard time trying to figure out how to merge the section markdown files together into the paper.md. I thought we just had to copy and paste the content in each of the section files into a manually created paper.md. In the end, a simpler way to do this is to use the cat function the Makefile to concatenate the sections into paper.md. I had to go to office hours for this, and a lot of my peers had the same concerns. The most time-consuming part of the project was not the coding, but rather the content I had to write in these sections. Once I understood the process, the coding did not take much time. Actually writing down how to complete a certain task using a certain program took a while for me to backtrack and see exactly what I did. This process actually made everything clearer, and I started to understand the project's scope as a whole. I got most of my help from the internet and the lecture material, and I went to the GSI's office hours for help on creating the Makefile. The total time this project took for me was around 8+ hours, and I enjoyed the learning process very much.

I hope everything discussed in the previous sections provided you an edge to create reproducible projects on your own. All these computational tools cannot be learned immediately but used often enough to master it. A lot of tutorials are online and should be read in order to make your project as personal and as flexible as you want it to be. Completing your future projects in this manner will help contribute to the open source movement. Make sure to always mind the reproducibility of your project via source code, Makefile, git commits, etc.